a bad mood often goes together with
ruminating about the past or worrying
about the future in many cases a mental
problem has a physical solution in other
cases the solution lies in changing the
way you think in this video I'll show
you six quick moods and answers that
have helped me to go from grumpy and sad
to good tempered and happy let's dive in
[Music]
one move it's common knowledge that
physical exercise like walking running
or strength training elevate your mood
especially if you let the blood pump
through your veins you're likely to
experience feelings of euphoria
afterwards active people are more happy
in general and the secret lies in a
movement any movement this could be from
running a marathon to walking from your
office chair to the coffee machine I
think there are different factors at
play here like oxygen and blood
circulation a change of scenery and that
movement will more likely tether you to
the present moment also movement is a
way to progress whether it's cleaning
your room or training for muscle growth
humans like progression to shock if you
feel down or depressed try this undress
turn the shower to cold
and jump in taking a cold shower has
many benefits if you take a cold shower
for a few minutes you will experience an
instant mood increase cold showers can
be excruciating ly uncomfortable and
that's the very reason why they work the
simple idea behind this is that comfort
grows out of discomfort to feel great
you need to feel like crap first you
basically shock your depression away by
exposing your body to cold water the
euphoria that comes after the cold
shower will make you feel better three
reason cognitive behavioral therapy is a
treatment based on the ancient
philosophy called stoicism it's a mind
hack that makes you feel better by
changing the way you think when you're
thinking about the past or worry about
the future you create a huge amount of
excessive thoughts excessive thinking
can become very problematic to the point
of deep depression psychosis and even
suicide I've made a video about this
called for dangerous effects of
overthinking the thing is thoughts are
not real thoughts are either fantasies
about what could happen in the future
and memories which are perceptions and
reflections of past events neuro
scientists discovered that memories are
highly adaptive and reshape themselves
in order to fit new circumstances
in other words
are not reliable cognitive behavioral
therapy hacks into the brains disordered
thinking patterns and attacks them by
using logic and reason it will challenge
the negative and delusional stories
you're probably telling yourself and
reshapes these thoughts into rational
thinking this way you expose the crap
that you've been feeding yourself that
makes you feel miserable for listen
another problematic phenomenon about
excessive thinking is that we are
inclined to hold on to our thinking
patterns and sometimes we are utterly
immersed by them like spiritual teacher
Eckhart Tolle once said and I quote many
people live with a tormentor in their
head that continuously attacks and
punishes them and drains them of vital
energy it is the cause of untold misery
and unhappiness as well as of disease
and quote the Buddhists call this the
monkey mind in which the mind recklessly
jumps from subject to subject a way to
dissolve this excessive thinking
patterns is listening to your thoughts
without engaging in them you can do this
by sitting down and observing your
thoughts closely this way you create
room between you the observer and a
stream of thoughts what do they say what
do they want by listening closely to
your thoughts without engaging with them
you'll notice that you are not your
thoughts they simply come and go don't
fight them and they will pass away
peacefully by accepting the mind instead
of fighting the mind it calms down a
calmer mind means a better mood five
talk another way to lift your mood is
talking just throw it out if you talk
about what bothers you and how you feel
you'll experience a sense of relief
however don't overdo this because
talking too much about how bad you feel
will possibly work counterintuitive also
pick wisely whom you talk to some people
are chronically miserable themselves
talking to them will only make it worse
you know what they say misery loves
company the trick is you don't
necessarily have to talk about your
problems
the
of engaging with other people and a
human connection that comes from that is
often mood lifting of course this
depends on the people you communicate
with I would say seek out positive
uplifting people the ones that have a
track record of making you laugh and
avoid the negative cynical ones six
sleep if nothing of the above helps I
think it's a good idea to give this one
a shot a bad mood can very well be
because you are sleep deprived
especially if you have been working or
studying a lot lately or maybe you are
an athlete and your muscles did not get
enough rest even a small nap can do
wonders for your mood like I mentioned a
mental problem often has a physical
solution when it comes to your mood a
lack of sleep can be absolutely
detrimental I've experienced that when I
feel down or anxious it's often because
I didn't sleep well that's why I
prioritize sleep over everything else
nowadays well I hope this video was
useful to you thank you for watching
[Music]